# INTRODUCTION
Travel industry is evolving day to day. As the industry evolves the need to digitalize all the transactions becomes need of the hour.The main objective of the Airline Reservation System is to manage the details of flight,Ticket,Booking,Agent,Seats. It manages all the information about flight, Customer, Seats. This project which is implemented on Java platform helps to manage Airline scheduling and bookings. This Airline Reservation System is a easily deployable, integrated end-to-end system starting from searching flight routes to book them. The project includes information about flight, no. of seats available, occupancy, availability, days and time of operation, no. of flights from point ‘A’ to point ‘B’, Price ranges, automated report and bill generation etc.\
# Problem Statement
Airline Reservation System will hold flight schedules and its fare tariffs,passenger reservations and ticket records.It saves time as it allows online procedure as users no longer to wait in a queue to book the flights.It is automatically generated by the server.Admin is the main authority who can do addition,deletion,and modification of flights if required.We can overcome this issuse by using this project.
# Airline Reservation System Modules
This application is divided into following modules

*Admin Module

*Bookings and cancellation Module

*Users Module
# Module Description
# Admin Module
This module deals with addition and deletion of routes, flights available, pick up points, dropping points, flight codes, passenger details and bus details. He has the complete control over the application. Only admin can perform these functionalities.
# Bookings and Cancellation Module
This module deals with the Search routes, Select flights, Select seats and pick up points, Provide information and payment gateway, Print booked ticket, Cancel the ticket. This module has been managed by admin and user has to enter the choice based on their requirements.
# User Module
This module deals with the selection of routes, flights and seats by the user. Only has the controls to book the tickets, he has to login and make his choice. Only user can do these functionalities.
# High Level Requirements

|`      `ID|`                 `Description|`            `Status|
| :- | :- | :- |
|`    `HL01|` `User login details | Implemented |
|`    `HL02|` `Booking the tickets | Implemented |
|`    `HL03|` `Cancellations of tickets | Implemented |
|`    `HL04|` `Admin adding details | Implemented |
# Low Level Requirements

|`      `ID|`                 `Description|`            `Status|
| :- | :- | :- |
|LL01\_HL01|` `User login with his username and password| Implemented |
|LL02\_HL01|` `Getting destinations details from user| Implemented |
|LL03\_HL02|` `Booking the tickets based on the details user entered| Implemented |
|LL04\_HL02|` `Adding the payment details| Implemented |
|LL05\_HL03|` `Cancellations of tickets| Implemented |
|LL06\_HL03|` `Refunding the payment| Implemented |
|LL07\_HL04|` `Adding the new details in the database| Implemented |
|LL08\_HL04|` `Deleting the details from the database| Implemented |
# Advantages


* When you book tickets through a travel agency or a travel agent then you have to pay some additional amount as commission fee but if you book online you get commission free booking.

* You can ask any sort of queries to them and they will answer in the best possible ways. They will also let you know about various flighttickets offers so that you can get discounts on your flight booking.

* Online shopping became popular because of this thing. You get lots of discount and coupon codes which help you save money while flight booking. Check today for myflighttickets offers and myflighttickets coupons to save more.

* No hidden catch or charges are there. It is very simple to book online and you get an overview of the entire process.

* You can choose a seat of your choice from the sitting arrangement and pay only what you should pay and nothing more. 

# Disadvantages
* You need internet access. Reliable internet access is required to check reservations and add bookings that are made over the phone.

* You need to be ready for an influx of new customers.

* Not all online booking systems are created equal.
